h1. Relocate Trisul database

There are two major places where Trisul per-context data is stored. 

# *on each probe* - the pcaps, runtime data like extracted files, etc
# *on the hub* - the main streaming metrics DB

By default - on both these nodes the root directory under which these are stored are @/usr/local/var@ . Use the @relocate@ CLI command to move this to a different volume.


h2. relocate context  

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
*Run on each node*
The @relocate context@ command must be on a node-by-node basis.

You only need to run the relocate command on the nodes (probes and hub) that you want to. Follow these steps.

h2. relocate on hub

Use the @trisulctl_hub relocate context@ command.

Say you want to relocate the _default_ context database to @/nsm/trisuldata@  ; you can run the following.

<notextile>
<pre class='language-bash'>
trisul_hub(domain0)> relocate context  domain0 hub0 default
** Relocate stopping context 
   + config0              stopped  success.context0
   + hub0                 stopped  Context is already stopped
   + probe0               stopped  Context is already stopped
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
** Relocate context : Move backend databases to another volume 
** Current location details for context [context0@hub0/domain0]

Current DB Root is at              : /usr/local/var
Current size                       : 5.67 MB
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Enter new location (enter to quit) :  /nsm/trisuldata
</pre>
</notextile>


The tool will then run some checks and ask you for a confirmation. 

* Once the relocation is done. You can restart the context using @start context default@


h2. relocate on each probe

Use the @trisulctl_probe relocate context@ command on each probe. 

Say you want to relocate the _default_ context database to @/nsm/trisuldata@  ; you can run the following.

<pre class='language-bash'>
	trisulctl_probe
	> relocate context domain0 probe0 default
	..
	..
	Enter new location (enter to quit) : /nsm/trisuldata
</pre>


