h1. Import PCAP with IDS 

Runs a PCAP dump and indexes Trisul's statistics, flow, and packet data with IDS alerts. 

h2. Two pass analysis

The tool included in the trisul-probe package called @importpcap_ids@ is used to import a PCAP dump.  The tool essentially orchestrates a 2-pass analysis over the PCAP dump. It looks like the following.

# *First pass* -- Trisul runs over the PCAP files and builds statistics, flows, traffic, packets, and all the other analytics.

# *Second pass* -- Snort/Suricata run over the PCAP files, sends alerts to Trisul via a Unix Socket,  and Trisul integrates the alerts with the statistics computed in the first pass.


h2. trisulctl_probe importpcap_ids

p(autohint info-circle danger). 
*Snort or Suricata install*
To proceed further you need to have Snort or Suricata installed on the probe node with all the rules that you want to use. 

Logon to the Trisul-Probe node where you have the PCAP dumps and run the following command.

<pre class='language-bash'>

trisulctl_probe importpcap_ids /home/trisul/dumps/MassivePacket.pcap context=mass1
</pre>

This command does the following
* if a context called _mass1_ does not exist; creates it
* if _mass1_ exists, it cleans it (ask you permission first)
* runs the PCAP through trisulctl_probe and into the context _mass1_
* runs the IDS over the same PCAPs and sends alert to Trisul 
* to view results ; logon to Web Trisul and in the login screen select _mass1_

Some additional limitations of the IDS tools :
# you need to put all PCAP files in one directory
# the PCAP files need to be named in "time order"
# the files cannot be .gz or .bz2, you need to uncompress them.





