h1. Backups 

There are two categories of data you might want back up :

- Configuration :=  this includes all the config files, analytics configuration, users, web config, context configuration, and such.
- Data := this includes the metrics, flows, alerts, packets

For a large data platform like Trisul , configuration backup is of main importance. The databases tend to be of very large Terabyte sizes.  The recommended solution for full scale data backup is to setup a DR node. 

h2. Directories 


p(autohint info-circle info). 
*Small deployment easy backup* For small deployments simply backup the @/usr/local@ directory. Ensure to first check the directory size using @du -sh /usr/local@ 


The following directories need  be backed up.  If your Trisul installation is small you can simply backup these directories using normal Linux backup tools.

|/usr/local/share| data |
|/usr/local/lib| libraries |
|/usr/local/var| data and log files. this directory can be very large |
|/usr/local/etc| config |
|/usr/local/bin| executables |

h2. Daily config backup

Using the @install_setup_backup.sh@ tool.

The trisul-hub package includes the install_setup_backup.sh (backup the Trisul setup) script which setups a CRON which automates these backups. 

The supported backup methods are :

# using sftp / scp (the default)
# using FTP 
# by copying to another directory, such as an external drive

h3. Running install_setup_backup.sh 

p(autohint info-circle danger). 
*For secure backups using ssh/scp* you need to setup automatic login use @ssh-copy-id@

The steps are :

# Go to /usr/local/share/trisul-hub  
# Type ./install_setup_backup.sh   
# You will be asked to enter the SFTP login details , or FTP login details
# You will be asked to enter a remote directory
 
Once complete a crontab entry will be automatically created to backup at 4:00AM daily. You may adjust this later.

<pre>
### Backup trisul configuration####
0 4 * * * /usr/local/share/trisul-hub/setup_backup.sh /usr/local/share/trisul-hub/setup_backup.conf

</pre>

The backups are placed in the remote directory in a single tar.gz file with the HOSTNAME and TIMSTAMP of the backup

h3. Distributed probe

If you have a distributed setup, copy the @install_setup_backup.sh@ @install_setup_backup.conf@ and @setup_backup.sh@ files to each node into the /usr/local/share/trisul-probe or trisul-hub directories and repeat the above steps.


h2. Restore

To restore the backup. Locate the backup with the correct timestamp you wish to use and untar the backup file.
