h1. User Roles

Trisul web users fall into three roles
  # Administrators
  # Forensics Operators
  # Operators
  # Subscriber


div(info). 
The default built-in user called *admin*. You can create other users with the same privileges.
%(label label-danger)Important% The built-in admin user cannot be deleted.

h2.  Roles 

There are four roles that a user can possess. 

|_.Role name |_.Powers |
|Administrator |Can do anything |
|Operators |No admin powers. Can only monitor traffic. Cannot look at flows, resources, or raw packets |
|Forensics Operators |No admin powers. Can monitor traffic, but also inspect in depth what anyone is doing, down to the packet level. |
|Subscriber|No admin powers. Can investigate subscribed IPs or Interfaces|

A role is but a set of allowed and disallowed operations. You can change what a role is allowed to do


div(info). 
Login as @admin@ user to manage user roles.

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Select _Webadmin_ > Manage -> Roles

For each role
  # The **red** color operations are disallowed
  # The **green** color operations are allowed
  # The **blue** color operations are read only


h2.  Inactivity security timeout 

Due to the sensitive nature of the data presented by Trisul, there is an inactivity timeout associated with each user. If no user interaction is seen by Webtrisul server for a certain period of time, the user is automatically logged out. They will then have to present their login/password again to re-enter the system.


You can increase inactivity timeout 
p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
To access, Select  Manage -> App settings -> Web Server -> Idle Timeout
If you want to disable it - set it to some _huge value_ (1000000 seconds)


h2.  Authentication Audit Log 

All login activity is logged by the server 

div(info). 
Login as @admin@ user to view login activity.

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Select _Webadmin_ -> Manage -> Auth Log

The following details are logged by the server 
  * Login time
  * Login IP
  * Login Status
  * Reason for failure to login (eg, wrong password)
  * Logout (with reason)
  * Inactivity timeout log
