h1. How to get started

Trisul is incredibly easy to get started on. There is no sign ups or credit cards - its as easy as 'apt-get install' or 'yum install'.  

The following links will get you up and viewing dashboards. 

# prepare a bare metal or VM and install Ubuntu or CentOS  [ "supported platforms":/download/ ]
# install Trisul using normal Ubuntu or CentOS methods (apt-get or yum) [ "quick install":/download ]
# arrange for packets or Netflow to reach the Trisul Probe [ "How to feed packets to Trisul":/docs/ug/install/input_packets.html , "how to send Netflow/SFlow/IPFIX/etc":/docs/ug/install/input_netflow.html]
# login and start viewing  [ "running trisul, opening firewall":/docs/ug/install/startstop.html ] | ["your first login":/docs/ug/basicusage/ ]

h2. Single probe

The easiest way to start is to use our _meta packages_ "Trisul Full (CentOS) or trisul-full (Ubuntu)". This will install all components on a single box with secure internal communications. This is the best way to get started. Later you can create your own data collection topology by distributing trisul-probes. More details about distributed "Trisul Domain":/docs/ug/domain/index.html


h2. The default Free license

The default install of Trisul automatically includes a 'Free License'. This lets you run Trisul for free but restricts the database to the most recent 3 days. This is a great way to get started.  The same APIs for extending Trisul are available for the Free License as well.  More details about the "Free License":/free  


h2. Easy licensing 

At any time of running on the free license, you can upgrade to a paid license depending on the size of your internal network. The licensing information is available on the "Pricing":/pricing page. Its all completely transparent and no hidden terms or other tricks. 