h1.  Trisul User Guide

Trisul Network Analytics includes everything you need to deploy a distributed Network Traffic and Security Monitoring solution across your enterprise. This User Guide is an operational guide that includes topics related to installing, administering, and using the web interface to navigate, view reports, set alerts, and monitoring your network.  

<div class='row'>

<div class='col-lg-6'>
<div class='panel panel-info'>
<div class='panel-body'>
h3. Other user documentation

Links to various other documentation apart from this User Guide.

# "What is Trisul":whatistrisul.html : What can Trisul do for you ? For first timers. 
# "Trisul Reference":/docs/ref  :  Various config files and command line tools
# "Howtos":/docs/howto/ : How to solve specific use cases with Trisul 
</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class='col-lg-6'>
<div class='panel panel-info'>
<div class='panel-body'>
h3. Developer guides

Trisul is also a platform on which you can build your own applications using Lua or Ruby/Python. Consult the developers guides listed below.

# "LUA API Guide":/docs/lua :  Custom real time analytics using LUA
# "TRP API Guide":/docs/trp :  Database and packet storage API 
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

h2. How to use this guide 

p(autohint exclamation-triangle info).. 
This guide assumes that you have installed Trisul and are able to login and view the data. If you are not at that point yet, please refer to the following resources first  |  "Getting Started":free.html | "Instructions on downloading and installing":/download 


h3. Sections

Use the table of contents on the left to navigate the user guide. The following table describes what can be found in each section.

| "Working with the UI":/docs/ug/ui/index.html | How to navigate the UI ? Using the modules and dashboards |
|"Traffic monitoring":/docs/ug/cg/index.html | How to perform long term and real time traffic monitoring ? How to create
                     your own counting policies ?  |
| "Raw packets and resources":/docs/ug/caps/index.html | How to use and customize the full packet capture storage ? How to setup policies to control what gets stored ?  |
| "Flow analysis":/docs/ug/flow/index.html |  How to use flow data ? How to track interesting flows and tag flows with text labels ?  |
| "Alerts":/docs/ug/alerts/index.html| How to view alerts ? How to setup threshold crossing and flow alerts ?  |
| "Webapp admin":/docs/ug/webadmin/index.html | Create web users, manage permissions, app settings|
| "12 Tools you can use":/docs/ug/tools/index.html | Description of built in network analysis tools |
| "Reporting":/docs/ug/reports/index.html  | How to view the dozens of included reports ? How to schedule reports by email ? |


