h1. Troubleshooting 

If you are unable to find your solution here please use any of the "support":/support/ options.

h2. Unable to log on to web page 

You should be using Firefox/Chrome/Safari/IE 10+  to logon to webtrisul at 

pre. http://<hostname>:3000

Username = @admin@ Password=@admin@

h5. 1. Check if linux firewall allows port 3000 

Allow port 3000 through your iptables

pre. iptables -I INPUT -p tcp --dport 3000 -j ACCEPT

p. Or try disabling iptables altogether and see if that helps.

pre. service iptables stop


h5. 2. Check if another daemon is running on port 3000 

pre. netstat -pant | grep 3000

If another process if using Port 3000, "Change Trisul Webserver Port":/docs/howto/index.html


h5. 5. Bad Gateway error 

Make sure your browser proxy settings are correct. 


h2. Unable to install RPM 

If you installed CentOS from CD-1 as a minimal server install, it may not have the libpcap library. 

pre.. 
[root@localhost lib]# rpm -Uvh  trisul-1.2.647-0.el5.x86_64.rpm
error: Failed dependencies:
libpcap.so.0.9.4()(64bit) is needed by trisul-1.2.647-0.el5.x86_64
[root@localhost lib]# 

p. To rectify this, install the libpcap package and retry.

pre. yum install libpcap


h2. Trisul startup trouble ?

h5. 1. Check if the  trisul process is running

pre. ps -C trisul 

h5. 2. Check the main log file for any error messages

pre. more /usr/local/var/log/trisul/ns-001.log
	
Look for messages with level of @ERROR@ or @FATAL@

h5. 3. Does interface eth0 exist ? 

By default trisul listens for network traffic on interface eth0. 
Check if interface eth0 exists and is UP. 

<pre>ifconfig eth0</pre>


h5. 3. Check if the Webtrisul HTTP stack is running 

Trisul uses the nginx and thin servers. Check if they are running.

pre. ps -ef | grep thin ps -ef | grep nginx

h5. 4. Check webserver logs 

Check if the webserver encountered any errors starting up.

pre.. 
more /usr/local/share/webtrisul/log/nginx.error.log
more /usr/local/share/webtrisul/log/thin.0.log


