h1. Resource Cap

Resource cap is used to calculate additional bandwidth usage.

h2. Create Resource cap

You can set a resource cap value 

# Goto "key dashboard":/docs/ug/ui/dashboards.html#key_dashboard
# Click the Create cap in the key dashboard module
#  You will be redirected to Resorce cap creation page

|_.Field Name|_.Description|
|key|Hex format of key(readonly)|
|Resolved key|User readable format of key(readonly)|
|Resource cap string|This must be a valid JSON. Ex resource cap for 10Mb the valid JSON is {"bw":1000000}|
|Description|Description of the resource cap|



h2. Edit Resource cap

# Goto "key dashboard":/docs/ug/ui/dashboards.html#key_dashboard
# Click the Edit cap in the key dashboard module
#  You will be redirected to Resorce cap edit page

|_.Field Name|_.Description|
|key|Hex format of key(readonly)|
|Resolved key|User readable format of key(readonly)|
|Resource cap string|This must be a valid JSON.Ex resource cap for 10Mb the valid JSON is {"bw":1000000}|
|Description|Description of the resource cap|


h2. Resource cap report

Generates a resource cap report for a specific IP Address.

Steps to generate resource cap reports
  # In the Endpoints & Application section, locate the 'IP Usage' option
  # Enter the IP address or host name in this box. Note that this box autocompletes hostnames.
  # Click on any of the time ranges adjacent to the text box


h2. Business Hours report

 You can get a daily report based on business hours.

h3. Set Business Hours time

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
To set select Customize->App Settings

change the business hour time

h3. Schedule Report with business hours time

	To "schedule":/docs/ug/reports/schedreports.html a new report 

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Select Reports -> Schedule

  # List of scheduled reports will appear
  # Click **Schedule a new report**

 Fill all values
 Enable **Business Hours only** to get daily reports for business hours


h2. Create Filtered Counter Group 

You have to configure "filter counter groups":/docs/ug/cg/custom.html#filtered_counter_groups to get usage port details  for particular IP

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
To configure Customize -> Counters -> Filtered Counters

# List of Filtered Counters will appear
# Click **New Filtered Counter Group**
#  You will be redirected to a page  with following fields

|_.Field Name|_.Description|
|Counter Croup Name|Name of the counter group.The name starts with Apps_ip|
|Description| Description of the counter group|
|Parent Group| Parent Group must be an APPS|
|Filter Group| Parent Group must be a Host|
|key List| Give the IP which you want to get port usage details|


Click **Create** button to add new Filtered Counter Group


