h1. Object AC (Aho-Corasick)

An Aho-Corasick multi pattern matcher created with "@T.ac( _pattern_array_ )@":#t.ac

This is a convenience utility provided to you by the Trisul framework because multi pattern matching is such a frequent need in network analytics applications. 

h3. Creating the object

The object is created and stored in a global state, either as a global variable or as a member in the @Global T@ table. Note that the global states are per-file not across LUA files.

<pre>
onload = function()
	T.patternMatcher = T.ac( {'string1','string2','strin3'...})
end,

.. later ..

T.patternMatcher:match_one(..)
</pre>

h2. Functions

A summary of the functions available in this object.


|_. Name       |_. In |_. Out |_. Description |
| match_all  | string |  table  | Matches all patterns. The matches are returned in a table <br/> { pattern_matched = position } <br/>The position indicates the last matching character, not the first. |
| match_one  | string  | table  | Same as match_all, but stops after finding a single match. Use this method for alerting on pattern matches.|


h2. Function @match_all@

Tries to match all patterns against the input text.


h3. Purpose 

Use this parameter passed to your Lua function to integrate your data into the Trisul framework.

h3. Parameters

| text | string |  the text to be matched  |

h3. Return value

A table of matches.  See the debug output below



h3. Usage 

In this example we are attempting to match a list of hostnames against a DNS Full Text Search text.

The code at the point the @dbg()@ is called is shown below

<pre>

onload = function()
	T.patterns  = T.ac( { "toolbar", "nsatc",  "HOLLERITH" })
end,

onflush= function(dbengine, fts)
	local m = T.patterns:match_all( fts:text() )
	dbg();
	if next(m)  then
		print("FOUND a match.. do your thing"
	end
..

</pre>

Using the debugger, we can inspect the return value @m@ 
<pre>

debugger.lua> p m
m => {"toolbar" = 87}

debugger.lua> p fts:text()
fts:text() => "QUERY\9ID: 39219\9Flags:0x0100\9QDCount:1\9ANCount:0\9NSCount:0\9ARCount:0\
Questions\
.toolbar.google.com\9\9A\9IN\
\
"

debugger.lua> 
</pre>



h2. Function @match_one@

Match all the strings in the pattern against the input text.
Stop at the first match. The @match_all@ tries to match all patterns and does not stop after the first match.


