h1. Configure Netflow

Trisul has the capability to use  Netflow like telemetry to gain deep visibility into your traffic performance, monitor traffic flows, and scan for security threats. Trisul features *comprehensive support* for Netflow v5/v9/JFlow/IPFIX/and SFlow metering.  This document describes _step-by-step_  how you can setup Trisul to process Netflow and _Netflow-like_ metering.

h2. Steps


<ul class="step-text">

<li>

h3. Configure your routers  

Configure your routers/switches to send Netflow to the Trisul-Probe's IP address and note down the following
* What interfaces on the Trisul server is getting the Netflow records (eth0,eth1,eth2, etc) ? What UDP ports are getting Netflow records ? 

h4. Default ports

The following ports are configured by default for Netflow and SFlow processing. The versions and flavors are automatically detected. To view or change these, use the "Netflow Wizard":/docs/ug/netflow/netflow_wizard.html from Context: default -> profile0 -> Netflow Wizard

* Traffic on UDP ports 2055,2056,2057,9500,9993 is interpreted as Netflow/IPFIX/JFlow. 
* UDP Port 6343 is treated as SFlow. 

</li>

<li>

h3. Confirm if Netflow records are being recieved

This is an optional step. Use tcpdump to check whether Netflow records are indeed coming in on the Trisul interface using tcpdump.

pre. sudo tcpdump  -i eth0 -nnn "udp port 2055"

You should be seeing some data within a minute or so. If not, check on other interfaces _eth1, eth2_. We recommend you ensure  Netflow is reaching your server on the correct port before proceeding. 

</li>

<li>

h3. Change probe NETFLOW_TAP mode 

Use the UI to change the mode from the default "Packet capture" to "Netflow"

* Login as Admin. Then go to _Context: Default --> Start/Stop Tasks_
* For probe0 on the "Packets or Netflow" column, change the drop down from *TAP* to *NETFLOW_TAP*

</li>

<li>

h3. Make further tweaks using the Netflow Setup Wizard

* Login as Admin and open the "Netflow Wizard":/docs/ug/netflow/netflow_wizard.html by selecting  _Context:default -> profile0 -> Netflow Wizard_ 
* Specify the interfaces and ports receiving Netflow that you noted down in _Step 1_ 
* Specify your organizations Home Networks

* Adjust the sampling rate. If some of your devices uses _flow sampling_ then you may have to manually configure that in Trisul.  To do that you have to edit the Netflow configuration file and add the  "Device-IP to Sampling Rate mapping":/docs/ref/netflow-config.html#sampling_rates

</li>

<li>

h3. Restart trisul-probe and finish  

* Login as Admin. Then select _Context:default -> Admin Tasks -> Start/Stop Tasks_
* Start the probe
* Logout and log back in a "user" to see the dashboards.

p. Congratulations!!  Now wait for about 10 minutes for Netflow data to start showing up.

</li>

h2. Netflow wizard 

Use the "Netflow Wizard":netflow_wizard.html to 

# Change interface eth0 on which we are getting Netflow
# Change the Home Network
# Change the UDP Ports that are mapped to Netflow

h2. Verify Templates

Netflow v9, IPFIX, JFlow, Netstream are technologies that use a concept of Template records. These are special records sent by the router which describe the metrics contained in normal data flow records.  Viewing these template records are a great way to troubleshoot Netflow.

p(autohint hand-o-right success). 
*To show templates* Login as admin, then select Context:default > Admin Tasks > Netflow Template DB

You can see the template database on each probe. This is updated every 10 minutes or when a new template is received. 



h3. Advanced configuration   

You can tweak the "netflow configuration file":/docs/ref/netflow-config.html for more advanced settings.

Typically, you dont need to do this because the defaults have been carefully selected for you.



