h1.  Counter Group Settings 

**You can :**
  # Edit settings such as bucket size and other settings
  # Edit topper policies; how many toppers to track for each meter
  # Perform further configuration for user defined counter groups

You can also enable or disable any counter group.

div(warning). **Restart required**  changes will be made effective only upon restarting Trisul

div(info). **Disabling a built-in counter group**  will cause all user-defined counter groups that depend on it to report zero usage.

h2.  Editing settings 

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Login as Admin -> Select Context and profile -> Under Basic Configurations -> Select Counter Groups

  # The entire list of counter groups is shown 
  # Click on the name of a particular counter group ,which leads you to a page with the fields below 

|_.FieldName|_.Description|
|Name|A name for this counter group|
|Description|Few words describing the purpose of the counter group|
|Active|Shows if the counter group enabled or disabled|
|Bucket Size |Specified as millisec.Counters are accumulated into this bucket and written out when a bucket is full. Smaller buckets results in more data being stored|
|Topper Traffic Only  |If enabled trisul will store only the toppers|

Click on _Advanced Options_ to access the following

|_.FieldName|_.Description|
|Topper Commit Interval|The parameter controls how frequently (in sec) are the toppers written to the database|
|High Water Mark|The maximum number of keys tracked in this counter group, before it is pruned down to the low water mark|
|Low Water Mark|When the number of keys tracked gets over the high water mark, Trisul prunes them down to this level|

h2.  Bulk edits
 
The following bulk edit options are available.

To access these options:

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Login as Admin -> Select Context and profile -> Under Basic Configurations -> Select Counter Groups -> Advanced Options

  # The entire list of counter groups is shown 
  # Set a bucket size for all counter groups
  # Disable all counter groups that do not apply in Netflow mode


h2.  Editing Counter Group Topper Policies 

Directions to edit counter group settings

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Login as Admin -> Select Context and profile -> Under Basic Configurations -> Select Counter Groups
  # The entire list of counter groups is shown 
  # Click the option **Edit Topper Policies** for a particular counter group , directs you to a page with the below fields 


table(noclass). 
|Total|
|Received|
|Transmit|
|Total|
|Active TCP Conns|
|Attacker alerts|
|Homenet|
|External|
|TCP SYN sent|
|TCP SYN recv|
|TCP SYNACK sent|
|TCP RSTFIN sent|
|Victim alerts|

The topper policy depends on the meters present for each counter group . The above example shows for @Internal Hosts@ consisting of 12 meters
