h1. Tasks

h3. How can I view real time traffic ?

%(hint command)Select Dashboards ->  Real Time Network Traffic%


h3. How can I view the top hosts by usage  ?


%(hint command)Select Dashboards -> Hosts% 



h3. How can I view the top hosts by usage to within 3 seconds ?

For real time traffic stats you need to use the Stabber feature.

%(hint command)Select Dashboards -> Real Time Network Traffic% 

# Click on the tag next to any host
# Select _Real time stab: Toppers_ 

h3. How can I view the top MAC by TRANSMIT to within 3 seconds ?

You need to use the _Real Time Stab Toppers_ tool.


%(hint command)Select Tools. Then click on Real Time Stab Toppers% 

# Select the Counter Group, in this case *MAC*
# Select the meter, in this case *TRANSMIT*
# Press Live Update


h3. Investigate past activity

%(hint command)Select _Retro_ from menu%

Now you can apply various "Retro Analysis Tools":/docs/ug/cg/retrotools.html to investigate


h3. I want to see details of a particular IP, but it isnt showing up anywhere for me to click ?

# "Use the search box":http:/docs/ug/ui/search.html#the_search_box
# Click on "View Details" to go to the key dashboard
# Use any of the tools on the key dashboard 

h3. Find out which flows caused a traffic pattern 

%(hint command)Select _Retro_ from the menu%
* Select the time interval of interest 
* Find "Flow Tracker":/docs/ug/cg/retrotools.html#track_flows tool in retro dashboard
* Select **Traffic** and click **Analyze**


h3. View flow activity of a particular host or port in real time

- Method 1 :=
If you can see the IP in live dashboards

# Click on the small tag next to the IP and select “Investigate”
# Click Real Time stab:Flow Activity
=:
 
- Method 2 := 
# Follow instructions in  "Using Search":/docs/ug/ui/search.html#the_search_box
# And click **Flows**  in Real Time stabbers in "Key Details":/docs/ug/ui/dashboards.html#key_details modules
=:

See "Real Time Stabber":/docs/ug/cg/stabber.html#flow_stabber 



h3. Store only 1MB worth of packets of each flow  

%(hint command)Open "Trisul Configuration":/docs/ref/trisulconfig.html#redis file as root%

* Edit @<Rule mode="FLOWCAP1M"></Rule>@
* Read "Tuning packet storage":/docs/ug/caps/packetstorage.html for more examples 




h3. How can I draw long term bandwidth usage charts ? 

%(hint command)Select Tools -> Long Term Traffic%

- Example := Draw long term bandwidth usage chart for port-80(http)

  # Select Tools->Long Term Traffic
  # Select Apps from Counter Group and  Total from meters
  # Eneter port-80 in item box
  # Click Analyze



h3. How can I chart a specific metric such as connections for host 10.10.1.1 ?

%(hint command)Select Tools -> Long Term Traffic%

  * Select Hosts from Counter Group and  TCP SYN Sent from meters
  * Eneter 10.10.1.1 in item box
  * Click Analyze



h3. I want to group IPs together for reporting for example by department ?

%(hint command)Select Customize -> Counters -> Keysets ->Add new Keyset Counter Group%

Click "Keyset Counter Group":/docs/ug/cg/custom.html#keyset_counter_groups for more.

