h1. Email alert delivery 

This page describes how you can configure Trisul to send you an email when any alert fires. 

The way the alerting pipeline works is the following.
* Alerts are first sent to syslog 
* The email alert service watches syslog for alerts and dispatches them 


h2. Using the Email Alerts Wizard 

Trisul has a new Email Alert Wizard that lets you configure everything from one place.

To access that

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Login as Admin -> Select Context and profile -> Under Alerts -> Email Alerts Wizard

You can just follow the steps in the wizard.


h2. Basic steps to enable email alerts 

The following steps are needed to forward email alerts.

<ul class="step-text">
  <li>
    <h5> Setup SMTP Server to send emails </h5>

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Login as Admin -> Manage ->  "Email Settings":/docs/ug/reports/emailsettings.html 
</li>

<li>

h5. Ensure who receives the Alert Emails 

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Login as Admin -> Manage ->  "Email Settings":/docs/ug/reports/emailsettings.html -> Select "Configure Email Alerts"

</li>

<li>

h5. Ensure alerts are forwarded to syslog

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Login as Admin -> Select Context > profile ->  "View Alert Groups" > Check if your alert is forwarded to syslog/email. Use "Edit" to enable

</li>

<li>

h5. Start the email Notification service

The email notification service logtails the syslog and dispatches alerts. The service is careful not to flood < 5 minutes and can automatically create digests if alert volume are too high.

p(autohint hand-o-right info). 
Login as Admin ->  Manage  > Start/Stop Tasks ->  "Start Email Notification Service

</li>
</ul>

h2. Advanced customization of email subjects and bodies


Trisul uses ERB Templates to configure email subjects and bodies.  

The config file is located in 
@/usr/local/share/webtrisul/config/initializers/emailalert_settings.rb@

The config file is well documented and should be self describing.


The file contains 5 sections. Each controlling a particular type of alert

# TCA = Threshold Crossing Alerts
# FT = Flow Tracker Alerts
# BADFELLAS = Blacklist based Alerts
# IDS = Snort/Suricata alerts
# TBA = Threshold Band  Alerts

h3. IDS Alerts 

IDS alerts from Snort/Suricata processed via Trisul.

|EMAIL_BLOCK_PRIORITIES|[]|Block these priorities. Set this to @[3]@ to block emails for low priority alerts |
|EMAIL_BLOCK_SIGS|[]|Block these signatures for email alerts |




