h1. All Reports 

h3. Endpoints & Application

Report for a particular IP , App, or Router Interface 

h2. Endpoint Report

Generates a summary report for a specific IP Address.

  # Enter the IP address or host name in this box. Note that this box autocompletes hostnames.
  # Click on any of the time ranges adjacent to the text box

h4. How to schedule ?

You need to specify a particular host as a subject for this report.

# From the _Report Type_ select "[Endpoint Activity] IP" 
# In the _Report Parameters_ field,
**  enter the host details in this format : @{"IP" : "ip-address or hostname" }@   Examples : @{"IP":"192.168.1.66"}@ or @{"IP":"mserver.mydomain.com"}@  You must include the quotes and brackets


---

h2. Application Report

Generates a summary report for a specific application (eg.HTTP, DNS, SMTP, etc)

  # Enter an application name (such as http) or a port number (such as Port-80)
  # Click on any of the time ranges adjacent to the text box


h4. How to schedule ?

Needs a port or application name to run.

# From the _Report Type_ select "[Application Activity] Application" 
# In the _Report Parameters_ field,
**  enter the port details in this format : @{"port1" : "port or app" }@   Examples : @{"port1":"Port-80"}@ or @{"port1":"http"}@  


---

h2. Router Interface Report

%(label label-important)Netflow only%

Report for traffic bandwidth and users for a particular router interface
  # Enter a router interface name or ID. Interface names are in the format IP_ifIndex.
  # Click on any of the time ranges adjacent to the text box

h4. How to schedule ?

You need to specify a router interface number.

# From the _Report Type_ select "[Interface Activity] interface" 
# In the _Report Parameters_ field,
**  enter the interface details in this format : @{"interface" : "ip-address_if-index" }@   Examples : @{"interface":"192.168.0.1_22"}@ Where 192.168.1.22 is the router IP and 22 is the ifIndex of the interface.


---

h2. IP Utilization report

View bandwidth utilization of an IP. 

# In the Endpoints & Application section , locate the  'IP usage' option.
  # Enter the IP address or host name in this box. Note that this box autocompletes hostnames.
  # Click on any of the time ranges adjacent to the text box


This report has two modes depending on whether or not you have configured per-app and per-protocol metering the IP.

table(table table-striped). 
|Simple | Report shows
# total / transmit / receive bandwidth. 
# a red line correspoding to the bandwidth cap set for that IP
# count of how many bytes were transmitted over the bandwidth cap |
|Advanced | Report shows
# everything in Simple +
# breakup of traffic by port
# breakup of traffic by protocol ( UDP, TCP, ICMP, etc) |

h4. Configuring the advanced mode

You get the maximum out of this report when you set the bandwidth cap and enable per-port and per-protocol metering.

h5. Setting the bandwidth cap for the IP

* Click on the IP, or search for it
* Click on "Create Cap" on the key dashboard
* Enter the bandwidth property in this format @{"bw": 9999}@ 

h5. Enable per-port metering for this IP

* Create a "filtered counter group":/docs/ug/cg/custom.html#filtered_counter_groups
* Parent = Apps, Filter = Hosts and enter the IP 
* Name the new counter group @APPS_IPAddress@. Example : @APPS_192.168.1.22@

h5. Enable per-protocol metering for this IP

* Create a "filtered counter group":/docs/ug/cg/custom.html#filtered_counter_groups
* Parent = _Network Layer Stats_, Filter = _Hosts_ and enter the IP 
* Name the new counter group @PROTO_IPAddress@. Example : @PROTO_192.168.1.22@


h4. How to schedule ?

You need to specify a particular host as a subject for this report.

# From the _Report Type_ select "[Endpoint Activity] IP" 
# In the _Report Parameters_ field,
**  enter the host details in this format : @{"IP" : "ip-address or hostname" }@   Examples : @{"IP":"192.168.1.66"}@ or @{"IP":"mserver.mydomain.com"}@  You must include the quotes and brackets

  
h3. Executive Reports

One click reports that are designed to give a high level overviews.

h2. Subscriber Activity

An overview of all your *internal hosts*. The term subscribers refers to entities within your domain. The report contains bandwidth usage details, TCP connections, hosts that generated most alerts, etc.


---

h2. Routers and Interfaces

%(label label-important)Neflow only%

An infrastructure report containing traffic details per router and about top router interfaces. This report is only available when Trisul is running in Netflow mode.

---

h2. Malware, botnet, virus infections

%(label label-important)Requires the Badfellas plugin%

A summary of all your internal hosts that might be compromised. The determination of compromise is based on blacklisting implemented by the "Badfellas plugin":/docs/ug/install/badfellas.html 


---

h2. Multicast vs Interactive

If you are running a satellite network such as in a broadcasting or trading application, this report gives you a breakup of multicast vs interactive traffic.


---


h2. Intrusion alerts

A comprehensive report of IDS alert activity over a period of time. Data and charts include : 
# Types of alerts over time
# counts by priority, 
# top alerts types of each priority, 
# top internal hosts which are alerting, top external hosts, 
# latest 100 alerts of each priority. 

h4. Alert Anomaly

A rudimentary 1-page anomaly report is also included : 

# For each priority 
** only list alerts which werent seen in the previous time interval


---

h2. Deep drilldown of Internal Hosts

A comprehensive drilldown of internal host activity. The data presented in the report include :

# Most active internal hosts
# For each of the top internal hosts
## Which external hosts are they talking to
## Which applications are they using
## Which flow tags are active

---

h2. Deep drilldown of External Hosts

A comprehensive drilldown of external host activity. The data presented in the report include :

# Most active external hosts (those on the internet or outside your home network)
# For each of the top external hosts
## Which internal  hosts are they talking to
## Which applications are they using
## Which flow tags are active

---

h2. Deep drilldown of Applications

A comprehensive drilldown of application activity. The data presented in the report include :

# Most active applications 
# For each of the top applications
## Which external hosts are involved 
## Which internal hosts are involved 
## Which flow tags are active


h2. Common counter groups

Frequently used counter group reports. To view reports for counter groups not in this list, go to *Top Traffic Reports* and then select the counter group. This report shows the top users for each meter. 

* Apps 
* Internal Hosts
* External Hosts
* ASNumber
* Country

h3. All available reports

This allows you to generate reports for any of the data types in Trisul using a two step process. First select the type of report, then the entity.

h2. Top Traffic Report

Top users by counter group.

Steps to generate Top Traffic Reports
  # In the All available reports section , find the option 'Top Traffic Report'
  # Click on a desired time range, which leads to a list of counter groups
  # Click on the desired counter group 


Some of the interesting reports in this section are.

| Base Domains | Report on top web traffic.  Google, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, etc |
| Countries | How much traffic uploaded and downloaded per country  |
| ASN | Traffic by autonomous system number (service provider)  |


---

h2. Top Sessions Report

Allows you to generate reports for flow trackers. Such as top flows by volume, time, uploading, etc.

Steps to generate the Top Sessions Report
  # In the All available reports section, find the option 'Top Sessions Report'
  # Click on a desired time range , which shows you a list of flow trackers
  # Click on a flow tracker (such as top flows by volume) to view 

---

h2. Security Report

Overview of all security issues in your network. This report combines  data from IDS alerts, malware alerts, flow tracker alerts, and threshold crossing alerts. 

Steps to generate a Security Report

  # In the All available reports section , find the option 'Security Report'
  # Click on a desired time range to generate the report

---

h2. Custom Key Report 

This is used to generate report for the "custom key monitors":/docs/ug/cg/ckey.html

Steps to generate a Custom Key Report

  # In the All available reports section , find the option 'Custom Key Report '
  # Click on a desired time interval, which leads to a list of custom key monitors
  # Click on a custom key monitor to generate the report

