h1. Domains

A domain is the top level group to which probes and hubs are members. This section describes the concepts and operations on the domain.

p(autohint info-circle danger). 
The central concept to a Trisul Network Analytics domain is the "CURVE":http://curvezmq.org/  "certificate" key pair. The nodes that connect to the domain must authenticate using this certificate. The steps in this section therefore mostly deal with creating this certificate and installing them.



h2. Domain Certificate 

The domain is identified by a file called the "Domain Certificate" and an associated private key.  The cert works as follows: 

# contains the 2 Network Endpoints called "frontend" and "backend" that probes and hubs connect to
# contains the public key 
# along with the domain certificate there is a _private key_ file called @domain0.cert_secret@ that is only installed on the Hub node and not visible to other nodes


The default domain called @domain0@ is a local domain. If you open up the file @/usr/local/etc/trisul-hub/domain0/domain0.cert@ you will find that the endpoints are of the form @ipc://..@  This is a local IPC socket because by default Trisul Probe and Trisul Hub reside on the same box. If you want to move to a TCP socket you need to create a new certificate as shown below with the new network ports. 

h3. Creating a new domain certificate 

It is recommended that you create and use a fresh domain0.cert file after playing with Trisul for a while. This is because the Trisul packages all include the same file so you can get started. 

h4. Create a new domain certificate 

# Type  @trisulctl_hub@
# Enter command @create domain@ 
# Enter a domain name : must start with "domain" - eg "domainEAST" 
# Enter 2 network endpoints : for example tcp://192.168.2.80:7000 and 7001 for ports 7000 and 7001 

Check if the certificate is created successfully in @/usr/local/share/trisul-hub/domain0.cert@  

It should look something like this 

<pre class='language-bash'>
root@trisulorg-ubuntu-1gb-sfo2-01:/usr/local/etc/trisul-probe/domain0# cat domain0.cert 
#   ****  Generated on 2016-07-27 20:52:08 by CZMQ  ****
#   ZeroMQ CURVE Public Certificate
#   Exchange securely, or use a secure mechanism to verify the contents
#   of this file after exchange. Store public certificates in your home
#   directory, in the .curve subdirectory.

metadata
    domain-id = "domain0"
    domain-backend = "tcp://10.10.234.90:12000"
    domain-frontend = "tcp://10.10.234.90:12001"
    domain-description = "Default Trisul Demo Domain"
curve
    public-key = "?$*:Ze]{UxMgkRM[K[{FmmEc@wq:P4p)+#qT0c5d"
</pre>


h4. Install the new domain certificate

Now you need to install the new certificate on the hub and then redistribute it to all the other nodes. 

# first check if @create domain@ worked. There should be a domain0.cert and domain0.cert_secret in /usr/local/share/trisul-hub.  Replace domain0 with domainXX if you have named it differently
# Type @trisulctl_hub@
# Stop running domain @stop domain domain0@ 
# Type @install domain /usr/local/share/trisul-hub/domain0.cert@  
# Confirm - if domain already exists, say "YES " to replace the certificate file.
# Restart domain @start domain@ 

Now you need to distribute the new @domain0.cert@ file to all probes and hub nodes.

h4. Install domain certificate on probe and hub

Say you got the new domain0.cert file in /home/mydir on a probe node. To update the certificate do :

# Type @trisulctl_probe@
# Stop the domain @stop domain domain0@
# Install the new certificate @install domain /home/mydir/domain0.cert@ 
# Start the domain 

Follow the same process to update the new domain certificate extra hub nodes. 


h2. Probe Authentication

Probe certificate.  The only details in the probe certificate are its name and description. 


<pre class='language-bash'>
root@trisulorg-ubuntu-1gb-sfo2-01:/usr/local/etc/trisul-probe/domain0# cat probeTRISUL.cert
#   ****  Generated on 2017-02-01 17:59:25 by CZMQ  ****
#   ZeroMQ CURVE Public Certificate
#   Exchange securely, or use a secure mechanism to verify the contents
#   of this file after exchange. Store public certificates in your home
#   directory, in the .curve subdirectory.

metadata
    node-id = "probeTRISUL"
    node-description = "TRISUL.ORG site "
curve
    public-key = "OhxF2Vk)Negg(Z=&pPxI7Vi*e84o$Ty<vyTKpNd+"

</pre>