h1. Install Trisul

Trisul is a distributed network analytics system that can be installed on off the shelf hardware.  Beginners and users of the Free License will want to install all the packages on a single server.  Advanced users can split the Hub and Probe nodes and roll out a distributed deployment. 

p(autohint info-circle info). 
*Is this your first install?* Follow the "Steps in the Download page":/download first.

h2.  Packages 

Trisul Network Analytics uses the normal APT (Ubuntu) and YUM (Redhat) tools for releasing packages.  There are two custom repositories

* CentOS/RHEL : https://trisul.org/download/trisulfull.repo
* Ubuntu : https://trisul.org/repos/apt/debian 

The Trisul Network Analytics system consists of 3 Core and 3 Optional Plugin packages. 

h4. Core packages 

These three packages are required. 

# *trisul-probe* | the probe node 
# *trisul-hub* | the hub node 
# *webtrisul* | the webserver 


h4. Plugin packages

Optional packages to provide extra functionality. 

# *trisul-badfellas* | Badfellas plugin - compares traffic with public intel sources 
# *trisul-geo* | Geo plugin - adds country and ASN metering 
# *trisul-urlfilter* | Urlfilter - classifies web traffic 

h2.  Docker

You can also install our new TrisulNSM Docker image which contains a fully functional NSM (Network Security Monitoring) system including an integrated IDS.  This is an alternative to the package installation. 




h2. Ubuntu Installation 

You can use *apt-get* or download and install the individual DEB packages manually.

h3. Adding the APT repository

If you plan on using _apt-get_  you need to add the Trisul.org repository to your sources. 

<pre class="language-bash">
sudo add-apt-repository http://trisul.org/repos/apt/debian 
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys A6CC1B18
sudo apt-get update
</pre>

Next you can install the packages. The following command installs the three core packages

<pre class="language-bash">
sudo apt-get install trisul-hub trisul-probe webtrisul
</pre>

to install the plugins

<pre class="language-bash">
sudo apt-get install trisul-badfellas trisul-urlfilter trisul-geo 
</pre>


h3. Installing the DEB packages manually

The DEB packages can be found on the Downloads page. 

# Download each DEB package and install them manually using @dpkg -i trisul-probe-6.0_xxx.deb@ etc. 


h2. CentOS/RHEL Installation 

You can use rpm or yum to install the packages.

h3. Adding the YUM repository

You only have to do this once to add the Trisul repository to yum.repos.d 

<pre class="language-bash">
cd /etc/yum.repos.d
wget http://trisul.org/download/trisulfull.repo

# check if Trisul Full is available now
yum group list
</pre>

then install the packages normally. The following example installs the Trisul core packages

<pre class="language-bash">
yum install trisul-hub trisul-probe webtrisul
</pre>

the following installs the three plugin packages

<pre class="language-bash">
yum install trisul-badfellas trisul-urlfilter trisul-geo 
</pre>


h3. Installing the RPM packages manually  


# Download each RPM file and use @rpm -Uvh@ to install them : @rpm -Uvh trisul-probe-6.0xyz.rpm@ etc.


h2. Customize initial configuration

By default, all Trisul Probes will listen on @PCAP@ mode on interface @eth0@ using the @online_rxring@ mode. If this is good for you, then you can just start the probe and skip this section for now. You rarely need to tweak the hub configuration , here are some changes you may want to make to the probe.

h3.  Customizing the probe

The trisul configuration file is created in "/usr/local/etc/trisul-probe/domain0/probe0/context0/trisulProbeConfig.xml":/docs/ref/trisulconfig.html

Some of the things you may want to change are :

|"TrisulMode":/docs/ref/trisulconfig.html#app|Default is _TAP_, if you are feeding Netflow change this to _NETFLOW_TAP_|
|"Ring":/docs/ref/trisulconfig.html#ring|Default is enabled, disable if you do not want to store packets|
|"User":/docs/ref/trisulconfig.html#app| Default is _trisul.trisul_. Change if you want trisul to run as an existing user|


h3.  Tweaking application parameters from the web interface

Login to the web interface as admin/admin and you may want to change the following two parameters. 

|Interface|Listens for traffic on _eth0_|Go to _Context Default -> Profile0 -> Capture Adapter_ to change |
|Home Networks|Only private IP space treated as home network| Goto _Context Default -> Profile0 -> Home Networks_ to change |


h2. Distributed install

The default installation and the free license allows you to put all componments on a single server.  Once you wish to scale up, you can deploy a number of trisul-probe's reporting to one of more trisul-hub nodes. The rules are :

# trisul-hub and webtrisul should be installed on one machine
# multiple trisul-probes can be installed
# the optional plugins packages must be installed along with trisul-probe 


h2. Next. Starting and stopping Trisul 

The next section you want to read is "Starting and Stopping Trisul":startstop.html

