h1. Verifying packages

All of our DEB and RPM packages are signed with our GPG key.

p(autohint flag). 
All packages are signed by our GPG public key, available at "http://trisul.org/pubkey.gpg":http://trisul.org/pubkey.gpg

h2. Verify a rpm 

The steps are  
# Import our public key @rpm --import http://trisul.org/pubkey.gpg@
# Verify using @rpm --checksig trisulpackage.rpm@

Look for the OK message.

A sample verify session would look like below

pre.. 
[root@localhost ~]# rpm --import http://trisul.org/pubkey.gpg
[root@localhost ~]# rpm --checksig webtrisul-3.0.1065-0.el6.x86_64.rpm
webtrisul-3.0.1065-0.el6.x86_64.rpm: rsa sha1 (md5) pgp md5 OK


p(autohint thumbs-o-up success). 
The RPM verification was successful if you see the status end with *pgp md5 OK*


h2. Verify a deb

You will be using a package called @dpkg-sig@ to verify the DEBs. Make sure it is installed first.

The steps are :

# Import our public key into your key ring using @gpg --import pubkey.gpg@
# Verify using @dpkg-sig --verify pkg.deb@


A sample verify session would look like below

pre.. 
nsmdemo@ubu22:~$ wget http://trisul.org/pubkey.gpg 
nsmdemo@ubu22:~$ gpg --import pubkey.gpg 
gpg: key A6CC1B18: public key "Unleash Networks Support (UNPL) <info@unleashnetworks.com>" imported
gpg: Total number processed: 1
gpg:               imported: 1  (RSA: 1)
nsmdemo@ubu22:~$ dpkg-sig --verify trisul_3.0.1316_i386.deb 
Processing trisul_3.0.1316_i386.deb...
GOODSIG _gpgbuilder 3024CAB9A68659FE4E4E3A0639A67B00A6CC1B18 1367065944


p. 
The output of dpkg-sig --verify must start with <span class="label label-success">GOODSIG</span>


p(autohint thumbs-o-up success). 
The verification was successful if you see the status line start with *GOODSIG*

